---
title: "CURE: Flexible Categorical Data Representation by Hierarchical Coupling Learning"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2018-06-02-TKDE_CURE
excerpt: 'This paper is about the categorical data representation for clustering and outlier detection. Matlab code is available.'
date: 2018-06-02
venue: 'TKDE'
paperurl: 'http://jiansonglei.github.io/files/18TKDE_CURE.pdf'
---
Authors: **Jian, Songlei,** Longbing Cao, Kai Lu, and Hang Gao

The representation of categorical data with hierarchical value coupling relationships (i.e., various value-to-value cluster
interactions) is very critical yet challenging for capturing complex data characteristics in learning tasks. This paper proposes a novel
and flexible coupled unsupervised categorical data representation (CURE) framework, which not only captures the hierarchical
couplings but is also flexible enough to be instantiated for contrastive learning tasks. CURE first learns the value clusters of different
granularities based on multiple value coupling functions and then learns the value representation from the couplings between the
obtained value clusters. With two complementary value coupling functions, CURE is instantiated into two models: coupled data
embedding (CDE) for clustering and coupled outlier scoring of high-dimensional data (COSH) for outlier detection. These show that
CURE is flexible for value clustering and coupling learning between value clusters for different learning tasks. CDE embeds categorical
data into a new space in which features are independent and semantics are rich. COSH represents data w.r.t. an outlying vector to
capture complex outlying behaviors of objects in high-dimensional data. Substantial experiments show that CDE significantly
outperforms three popular unsupervised encoding methods and three state-of-the-art similarity measures, and COSH performs
significantly better than five state-of-the-art outlier detection methods on high-dimensional data. CDE and COSH are scalable and
stable, linear to data size and quadratic to the number of features, and are insensitive to their parameters.


[Download paper here](http://jiansonglei.github.io/files/18TKDE_CURE.pdf) 

[CDE Code](https://github.com/jiansonglei/CDE)
[COSH Code](https://github.com/jiansonglei/COSH)

Recommended citation:

@article{jian2018cure,
  title={CURE: Flexible Categorical Data Representation by Hierarchical Coupling Learning},
  author={Jian, Songlei and Pang, Guansong and Cao, Longbing and Lu, Kai and Gao Hang},
  journal={IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering},
  year={2018},
  publisher={IEEE}
  }