---
title: "Metric-based Auto-Instructor for Learning Mixed Data Representation"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2018-02-01-AAAI_MAI
excerpt: 'This paper is about mixed data representation. Matlab code is available.'
date: 2018-02-01
venue: 'AAAI'
paperurl: 'http://jiansonglei.github.io/files/18AAAI_MAI.pdf'

---
Authors: **Jian, Songlei**, Liang Hu, Longbing Cao, and Kai Lu.

Mixed data with both categorical and continuous features
are ubiquitous in real-world applications. Learning
a good representation of mixed data is critical yet
challenging for further learning tasks. Existing methods
for representing mixed data often overlook the heterogeneous
coupling relationships between categorical
and continuous features as well as the discrimination
between objects. To address these issues, we propose
an auto-instructive representation learning scheme to
enable margin-enhanced distance metric learning for
a discrimination-enhanced representation. Accordingly,
we design a metric-based auto-instructor (MAI) model
which consists of two collaborative instructors. Each instructor
captures the feature-level couplings in mixed
data with fully connected networks, and guides the
infinite-margin metric learning for the peer instructor
with a contrastive order. By feeding the learned
representation into both partition-based and densitybased
clustering methods, our experiments on eight UCI
datasets show highly significant learning performance
improvement and much more distinguishable visualization
outcomes over the baseline methods.

[Download paper here](http://jiansonglei.github.io/files/18AAAI_MAI.pdf)

[Code](https://github.com/jiansonglei/MAI)

Recommended citation :

@inproceedings{jian2018metric,
  title={Metric-based Auto-Instructor for Learning Mixed Data Representation},
  author={Jian, Songlei and Hu, Liang and Cao, Longbing and Lu, Kai},
  year={2018},
  organization={AAAI}
}